Update `@wordpress/components` package's contributing guidelines (#33960)
WordPress/gutenberg: packages/components/CONTRIBUTING.md

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to the `@wordpress/components` package to be considered in addition to the general ones described in our [Contributing Policy](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Core principles

Contributions to the `@wordpress/components` package should follow a set of core principles and technical requirements.

This set of guidelines should apply especially to newly introduced components. It is, in fact, possible that some of the older component don't respect some of these guidelines for legacy/compat reasons.

### Compatibility

The `@wordpress/components` package includes several components which are relied upon by many developers across different projects. It is, therefore, very important to avoid introducing breaking changes as much as possible.

> In these situations, an alternative approach is to "soft-deprecate" the given legacy API. This is achieved by removing traces of the API from the docs, while the code keeps supporing it in the background (with or without a warning)

Reviewer: When and why do we add or not add a deprecation warning?

Author: That's a great question and one that I don't have an answer to. That's why it would be great to collaborate and come up with a more objective way to determine what do to in these scenarios.

Author: cc @gziolo in case you have highlights about the soft deprecation strategy, in particular about if and when we should output a deprecation warning

Reviewer 2: We need to update first all places in Gutenberg that use API that is about to be deprecated. When that is ready, we can add warnings. If we do it earlier then Browser Console will be printing all those warnings. In addition to that, it would also fail e2e tests.

Author: Thank you for the explanation! I've amended the paragraph and added those "steps" in [`37c949d` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/37c949dfe3421109c6d8663e67dd2cca60e292dc)

### Components structure

The contents of the `@wordpress/components` package can be divided into three groups: UI Primitives, UI Blocks, and Utilities.

#### UI Primitives

> Lower-level components, which are usually composed together to build the second type of components: UI Blocks. UI Primitives usually don't contain translated text and aim at being highly configurable (at the expense of exposing more props and therefore more complexity).

Reviewer: @mtias has different terms for this same concept I believe.

Reviewer 3: > at the expense of exposing more props and therefore more complexity

This worries me a bit, we could quickly regret it 🤷‍♂️ I think if we can keep these "primitives" internal, it's better (not expose them in wp.components).

Also, we already have a concept of "primitives": components that replace DOM elements to be mobile compatible `@wordpress/primitives`

Author: > @mtias has different terms for this same concept I believe.
> Also, we already have a concept of "primitives"

I'm completely fine with using different terminology (rather than `Primitives` and `UI blocks`). The most important thing to me is that we (if we want to) introduce a distinction between low-level and high-level components, which may help users of this package (including other Gutenberg developers) to choose the right component for a given task.

Does anyone have any suggestions on the naming?

> This worries me a bit, we could quickly regret it 🤷‍♂️

I'm fine with removing the `at the expense of exposing more props and therefore more complexity` text — the main reason why I added it is because it had been previously suggested as a potential difference between "low" and "high" level components.

> I think if we can keep these "primitives" internal, it's better (not expose them in wp.components).

I think that low-level components can still be useful — for example, in the case a user wanted to create their own version of a UI component, but without re-implementing the functionality from scratch and while keeping the WordPress look&feel.

Author: This topic can be discussed at a later time in this dedicated issue: #34305

In the meantime, I will go ahead and remove any text referencing any potential components classification in this PR

UI Primitives can be useful when in need of building an app with all new UI that looks and feels like WordPress but isn't powered by other WordPress technologies (like `@wordpress/i18n`).

> _[Note: we need to discuss how to properly classify/label these components. Should we introduce `primitives`, `blocks` and `utils` folders in the `src` folder? Should we include a standard way in each component's README to show which category it belongs to?]_

Author: Marking for visibility

Author: The potential classification of the components into different groups won't be discussed / applied in this PR. Instead, it can be discussed at a later time in this dedicated issue: #34305

> #### UI Blocks

Reviewer: Blocks is a very bad name to use, in my opinion. In the context of WordPress and Gutenberg especially it already means something very specific which the components package has nothing to do with.

Author: I've chosen Primitives/Blocks for the first draft version of the guidelines based on this open issue (#33111), but I agree that we should pick a better (less confusing) name.

Author: The conversation can continue in https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960#discussion_r695054513.

Higher-level components, which usually offer fewer props compared to UI Primitives and contain translated text. These components use other WordPress technologies and are ready to be used in Gutenberg's UI.

#### Utilities

Components and other utilities function that don't necessarily render a piece of UI to screen, but are instead useful when implementing a given piece of functionality.

### Components composition

> [To be expanded] E.g.:

Author: This section needs to be expanded

- Polymorphic Components
- Using `children` vs custom render props vs arbitrary "data" props
- Controlled and semi-controlled components
- Composition patterns
- Sub-components naming conventions
- Components' layout responsibilities and boundaries (i.e., a component should only affect the layout of its children, not its own)
- ...

### APIs Consinstency

> [To be expanded] E.g.:

Author: This section needs to be expanded

> - Boolean component props should be prefixed with `is*` (e.g. `isChecked`) or `has*` (`hasValue`).

Reviewer: Should this also include the `enable` prefix?

Author: Done in [`e541a7b` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/e541a7b61aaa925921214c8bf80ed8ed2320824e)

- Event callback props should be prefixed with `on*` (e.g. `onChanged`)

> - `styled` components should be suffixed with `*View` (e.g. `BoxView`)

Reviewer: This seems like a bad guideline to me now. `const RangeControlView = styled( RangeControl )` doesn't make any sense to me. In what sense is it a "View"?

Author: I was under the impression that this pattern had been agreed in previous PRs as a way to recognise `styled` components — here's an [example](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33054/files#diff-3ba4eeae54a94e8a8f295d9d9052048a33ef16f5f69880ac69dc4dd6138dd752R28).

Anyway, I removed this line in [`aea7c60` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/aea7c603b2ad7f1cca740d667cb1dcab273a84cc)

Reviewer: Right, I think we'd discussed it, I'm just rechallenging it after more experience with it before it becomes codified 🙂

- ...

### Technical requirements for new components

The following are a set of technical requirements for all newly introduced components. These requirements are also retroactively being applied to existing components.

For an example of a component that follows these requirements, take a look at [`ItemGroup`](/packages/components/src/item-group);

#### TypeScript

> All new components should be written in TypeScript and should be typed using the `PolymorphicComponent` type (more details about polymorphism can be found above in the "Components composition" section).

Reviewer: Should we change the name of PolymorphicComponent soon? WordPressComponent might be a good option? Given that that type can represent non-polymorphic components the name is extremely confusing, especially when used for typing existing components.

Author: Agreed. I will work towards renaming that type in a separate PR, then update the guidelines in this PR

Reviewer 2: Until the package is fully typed with TS is rather difficult to enforce this rule. For now, you could word it as "we strongly encourage using TS".

Author: Changed the working to "We strongly encourage" and updated from `PolymorphicComponent` to `WordPressComponent` in [`aa5df68` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/aa5df68a656ef6e923107b491bcc8d31feee6c4c)

#### Emotion

All new component should be styled using [Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction).

Note: Instead of using Emotion's standard `cx` function, the custom [`useCx` hook](/packages/components/src/utils/hooks/use-cx.ts) should be used instead.

#### Context system

> [To be expanded]

Author: This section needs to be expanded

#### Hooks vs Components

> [To be expanded]

Author: This section needs to be expanded

#### Storybook

All new components should include Storybook examples.

#### Documentation

All components, in addition to being typed, should be using JSDoc when necessary.

Each component that is exported from the `@wordpress/components` package should include a `README.md` file, explaining how to use the component, showing examples, and documenting all the props.

#### Folder structure

Following all previous guidelines, all new components should follow this folder structure:

```
component-parent-folder/
├── sub-component-folder/
├── component.tsx
├── context.ts
├── hook.ts
├── index.ts
├── README.md
├── styles.ts
└── types.ts
```

In case of a family of components (e.g. `Card` and `CardBody`, `CardFooter`, `CardHeader` ...), each component's implementation should be added in a separate subfolder:

```
component-parent-folder/
├── sub-component-folder/
│   ├── index.ts
│   ├── component.tsx
│   ├── hook.ts
│   └── README.md
├── sub-component-folder/
│   ├── index.ts
│   ├── component.tsx
│   ├── hook.ts
│   └── README.md
├── stories
│   └── index.js
├── test
│   └── index.js
├── context.ts
├── index.ts
├── styles.ts

> └── types.ts

Reviewer: It always weirded me out that we split components into separate folders but cram all the types and styles into single files... why is that? Why not split the styles along with the components that use them?

Author: That's what I have always thought too — why shouldn't each component have its own `styles.ts` and `types.ts` types?

I have updated the guidelines to follow this pattern in [`6251980` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/6251980121a82b4e8b1a2056ccd0f50afb592649)

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to the `@wordpress/components` package to be considered in addition to the general ones described in our [Contributing Policy](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Core principles

Contributions to the `@wordpress/components` package should follow a set of core principles and technical requirements.

This set of guidelines should apply especially to newly introduced components. It is, in fact, possible that some of the older component don't respect some of these guidelines for legacy/compat reasons.

### Compatibility

> The `@wordpress/components` package includes several components which are relied upon by many developers across different projects. It is, therefore, very important to avoid introducing breaking changes as much as possible.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we want to have any breaking changes for stable APIs:

```suggestion
The `@wordpress/components` package includes components that are relied upon by many developers across different projects. It is, therefore, very important to avoid introducing breaking changes.
```

The suggested alternative to soft-deprecate API is the way to go.

Author: I know that this PR is not the right place for this conversation to happen, but in the future I'd like to discuss how we can prepare a strategy for introducing breaking changes to this package.

For now, we can definitely go with what you're advocating (thank you for the suggestion!)

In these situations, an alternative approach is to "soft-deprecate" the given legacy API. This is achieved by removing traces of the API from the docs, while the code keeps supporing it in the background (with or without a warning)

### Components structure

> The contents of the `@wordpress/components` package can be divided into three groups: UI Primitives, UI Blocks, and Utilities.

Reviewer 2: The proposed structure isn't reflected in the code as of today (as noted below). It is confusing when you don't have a deep understanding of the subtle differences between UI primitives or UI blocks. At the end of the day, what is the most important is what gets exposed as public API. I don't think we ever want to expose utilities as they should rather be used to help with code reuse internally.

Author: I replied to a similar point made by @priethor in [this other comment](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960#discussion_r695093491). Let's move this conversation there

- Controlled and semi-controlled components
- Composition patterns
- Sub-components naming conventions
- Components' layout responsibilities and boundaries (i.e., a component should only affect the layout of its children, not its own)
- ...

### APIs Consinstency

[To be expanded] E.g.:

- Boolean component props should be prefixed with `is*` (e.g. `isChecked`), `has*` (e.g. `hasValue`) or `enable*` (e.g. `enableScroll`)
- Event callback props should be prefixed with `on*` (e.g. `onChanged`)
- ...

### Technical requirements for new components

The following are a set of technical requirements for all newly introduced components. These requirements are also retroactively being applied to existing components.

For an example of a component that follows these requirements, take a look at [`ItemGroup`](/packages/components/src/item-group);

#### TypeScript

All new components should be written in TypeScript and should be typed using the `PolymorphicComponent` type (more details about polymorphism can be found above in the "Components composition" section).

#### Emotion

All new component should be styled using [Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction).

> Note: Instead of using Emotion's standard `cx` function, the custom [`useCx` hook](/packages/components/src/utils/hooks/use-cx.ts) should be used instead.

Reviewer 2: Can we add an ESLint rule that helps to catch those violations?

Reviewer: There already is, importing from `@emotion/css` where `cx` lives is a restricted import. @ciampo we might need to update the message that accompanies that rule though.

Author: I'll look into the ESLint rule message and report updates here

Author: I've opened #34418 to update the message — feel free to leave any feedback there

#### Context system

[To be expanded]

#### Hooks vs Components

[To be expanded]

#### Unit tests

> All new components should include unit tests using [testing library](https://testing-library.com/). Ideally, the component's main piece of functionality would be tested explicitely (rather than using snapshots).

Reviewer 3: Is it really necessary to have mandatory unit tests for components. Usually they turned out to be testing implementation details.

Author: > Usually they turned out to be testing implementation details.

I agree that most unit tests are either snapshots or usually poorly written. Ideally, it should be the reviewer's duty to ensure that the unit tests added to the codebase are well written.

Is not requesting unit tests a better solution?

Author: Update: I merged #34423, rebased this PR, and updated the "Unit Tests" section in 0a36f58 (#33960) as agreed in [this conversation](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960#discussion_r690196895).

There's no mention of "required" unit tests anymore, but I'd be interested to know your opinion on my answer above.

> All new components should include unit tests using [testing library](https://testing-library.com/). Ideally, the component's main piece of functionality would be tested explicitely (rather than using snapshots).

Reviewer 2: It should be expanded with some examples. Otherwise, it isn't very valuable for folks who don't know what testing library is or what snapshot testing is. We can reference more detailed documentation:

https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/docs/contributors/code/testing-overview.md#javascript-testing

There is also a section about using snapshots. The challenge is that it still references Enzyme so it should get updated with the recommendations you have here.

Author: If I understand correctly, do you suggest that we:

1. Update the Testing Overview docs to reference Testing Library (should it be in addition to the Enzyme example, or instead of the Enzyme example?)
2. In this PR, reference to the Testing Guidelines

If that's the case, I can look into updating the Testing Overview docs in a separate PR.

Reviewer 2: Let's pretend we don't use Enzyme at all 😅 

I think you sketched a good plan, in this PR we can reference testing guidelines and tackle up to date testing recommendation separately 👍🏻

Author: Opened #34423 for the changes to the Testing Overview docs

Author: merged #34423, rebased this PR, and updated the "Unit Tests" section in [`0a36f58` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/0a36f58417cb3f10434d6a040a7b2c9d3520d0ec)

#### Storybook

> All new components should include Storybook examples.

Reviewer 2: It needs more details because more contributors won't know how to do it.

Author: Makes sense! I will add more details to this section

Author: Added more details in [`4458f85` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/4458f8502ce312c89bc61c3186fa2a4bdf5c36b3)

#### Documentation

All components, in addition to being typed, should be using JSDoc when necessary.

Each component that is exported from the `@wordpress/components` package should include a `README.md` file, explaining how to use the component, showing examples, and documenting all the props.

#### Folder structure

> Following all previous guidelines, all new components should follow this folder structure:

Reviewer 4: Does this structure apply to UI-ess utilities as well? As @gziolo mentioned above, it doesn't seem like these utilities need to be exposed as they are reusable implementation details rather than components to be consumed externally. If so, I'd lean towards separating utilities in the folder structure.

Author: > it doesn't seem like these utilities need to be exposed as they are reusable implementation details rather than components to be consumed externally

That's a good point! I guess it greatly depends on what we define as a "utility" — see for example this [draft list](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues/33111#issuecomment-871569331) that @sarayourfriend and I worked on some time ago.

If we were to go with this list, I would argue that some of these "utilities" could be useful if exported.

> I'd lean towards separating utilities in the folder structure.

If you refer to a component's folder structure, then I agree that we could change the wording so that the suggested folder structure _does not_ apply to internal utility components/function.

With regards to the overall package folder structure, I left a [note](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960#discussion_r687024506) in the `CONTRIBUTING.md` file in this PR about it — would love to hear your opinion about it too!

Author: Hey @priethor , just a quick update — I've created a separate issue (#34305) to discuss the potential classification of the components into different groups.

I've also slightly reworded the first paragraph of the "Folder Structure" section in [`5111e1e` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/5111e1e17a671b7cb34db7fe148adaced27fd4d0) — it now specifies that this folder structure should not apply to shared utilities (i.e. not components).

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to the `@wordpress/components` package to be considered in addition to the general ones described in our [Contributing Policy](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Core principles

Contributions to the `@wordpress/components` package should follow a set of core principles and technical requirements.

> This set of guidelines should apply especially to newly introduced components. It is, in fact, possible that some of the older component don't respect some of these guidelines for legacy/compat reasons.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This set of guidelines should apply especially to newly introduced components. It is, in fact, possible that some of the older components don't respect some of these guidelines for legacy/compatibility reasons.
```

### Compatibility

The `@wordpress/components` package includes components that are relied upon by many developers across different projects. It is, therefore, very important to avoid introducing breaking changes.

In these situations, one possible approach is to "soft-deprecate" a given legacy API. This is achieved by:

1. Removing traces of the API from the docs, while still supporing it in code;

> 2. Updating all places in Gutenberg that use that API;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Removing traces of the API from the docs, while still supporting it in code.
2. Updating all places in Gutenberg that use that API.
```

> 3. Adding deprecation warnings (only after the previous point is completed, otherwide the Browser Console will be polluted by all those warnings and some e2e tests may fail).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Adding deprecation warnings (only after the previous point is completed, otherwise the Browser Console will be polluted by all those warnings and some e2e tests may fail).
```

> 

Reviewer 5: I'd suggest adding a note about prefixing new components and props with `__unstable` or `__experimental`. I'm not sure if we all agree with that, but that's something I often suggest in code reviews.

Also, linking to the specific docs would be useful.

```suggestion

When adding new components or new props to existing components, it's recommended to prefix them with `__unstable` or `__experimental` until they're stable enough to be exposed as part of the public API.

Learn more on [How to preserve backward compatibility for a React Component](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/docs/how-to-guides/backward-compatibility/README.md#how-to-preserve-backward-compatibility-for-a-react-component) and [Experimental and Unstable APIs](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/docs/contributors/code/coding-guidelines.md#experimental-and-unstable-apis).

```

Reviewer 2: That's a good default to go with. In the context of components, it's going to be experimental in most of the cases ❤️

Author: Makes a lot of sense, thank you @diegohaz for suggesting this approach!

@gziolo, out of curiosity — when adding links to other files in the repo, I omitted the `(https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/` prefix.

Do you have a preference around the link format?

Reviewer 2: At some point @sarayourfriend updated all links to start with: `https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/`. It might be related to the switch from `master` to `trunk` though.

Some links get special treatment in the Block Editor Handbook, see more in https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/trunk/docs/contributors/documentation#using-links.

Reviewer: Yeah it was related to the branch rename... HEAD is a neutral pointer to the "main" branch of a repository regardless of the name, so we were able to complete that before the tools for renaming the branch were available (basically pre-work we could do to prepare the repo for the rename).

We can use the `trunk` name directly I guess, but if the branch name ever changed again for some reason you'd incur the cost of doing the update to HEAD again.

Author: Thank you both for the details explanation!

Following the documentation linked by @gziolo , I've decided to update all internal link to the "absolute path" format in [`8c494c8` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/8c494c83282cb1a9cf68f0bb51597d91d5f1abb5)

### Components composition

<!-- ### Polymorphic Components (i.e. the `as` prop)

The primary way to compose components is through the `as` prop. This prop can be used to change the underlying element used to render a component, e.g.:

```tsx
function LinkButton( { href, children } ) {
	return <Button variant="primary" as="a" href={href}>{ children }</Button>;
}
```

### Composition patterns

TBD — E.g. Using `children` vs custom render props vs arbitrary "data" props

### (Semi-)Controlled components

TBD

### Layout "responsibilities"

TBD — Components' layout responsibilities and boundaries (i.e., a component should only affect the layout of its children, not its own) -->

#### Components & Hooks

One way to enable reusability and composition is to extract a component's underlying logic into a hook (living in a separate `hook.ts` file). The actual component (usually defined in a `component.tsx` file) can then invoke the hook and use its output to render the required DOM elements. For example:

```tsx
// in `hook.ts`
function useExampleComponent( props: PolymorphicComponentProps< ExampleProps, 'div' > ) {
	// Merge received props with the context system.

> 	const { isVisible, className, ...otherProps	} = useContextSystem( props, 'Example' );

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
	const { isVisible, className, ...otherProps } = useContextSystem( props, 'Example' );
```

Reviewer 2: Is Prettier ignoring `tsx` in MD files?

Author: I don't personally remember Prettier ever auto-formatting code snippets in MD files — has that always been supposed to happen?

Reviewer: Prettier is definitely able to do it: https://prettier.io/blog/2017/11/07/1.8.0.html

> Powered by Prettier's generic "multiparser", Prettier will format code blocks in Markdown! We use the language code provided with the code block to determine which language it is, and thus we can format any language that Prettier supports (including Markdown itself, if you're into that).

It might be slipping up on the `tsx` definition? Or could just be a configuration issue, or if Prettier isn't enabled on MD files for some reason.

Author: It doesn't seem to work for me even for `jsx` snippets — does it work for you?

	props: PolymorphicComponentProps< ExampleProps, 'div' >,
	forwardedRef: Ref< any >
) {
	const exampleProps = useExampleComponent( props );

	return <View { ...spacerProps } ref={ forwardedRef } />;
}
```

A couple of good examples of how hooks are used for composition are:

- the `Card` component, which builds on top of the `Surface` component by [calling the `useSurface` hook inside its own hook](/packages/components/src/card/card/hook.js);
- the `HStack` component, which builds on top of the `Flex` component and [calls the `useFlex` hook inside its own hook](/packages/components/src/h-stack/hook.js).

<!-- ### APIs Consinstency

[To be expanded] E.g.:

- Boolean component props should be prefixed with `is*` (e.g. `isChecked`), `has*` (e.g. `hasValue`) or `enable*` (e.g. `enableScroll`)
- Event callback props should be prefixed with `on*` (e.g. `onChanged`)
- Subcomponents naming conventions (e.g `CardBody` instead of `Card.Body`)
- ...

### Performance

TDB -->

### Technical requirements for new components

The following are a set of technical requirements for all newly introduced components. These requirements are also retroactively being applied to existing components.

> For an example of a component that follows these requirements, take a look at [`ItemGroup`](/packages/components/src/item-group) as an example.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For an example of a component that follows these requirements, take a look at [`ItemGroup`](/packages/components/src/item-group).
```

#### TypeScript

> We strongly encourage using TypeScript for all new components. Components should be typed using the `WordPressComponent` type (more details about polymorphism can be found above in the "Components composition" section).

Reviewer 2: There is no "Components composition" section yet so the part in parenthesis should be commented out for now.

Author: Done in [`6647446` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/66474469b39466210d2596af1110719ea4e84602)

> #### Emotion

Reviewer 2: Should this section be renamed to "Styling"? If someone doesn't know Emotion, they might miss this section when the only skim the document.

Author: Good point. Done in [`670ca6c` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/670ca6c4bccbd151dc87908f95669152dc257fcd)

All new component should be styled using [Emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction).

Note: Instead of using Emotion's standard `cx` function, the custom [`useCx` hook](/packages/components/src/utils/hooks/use-cx.ts) should be used instead.

#### Context system

The `@wordpress/components` context system is based on [React's `Context` API](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html), and is a way for components to adapt to the "context" they're being rendered in.

Components can use this system via a couple of functions:

- they can provide values using a shared `ContextSystemProvider` component
- they can connect to the Context via `contextConnect`
- they can read the "computed" values from the context via `useContextSystem`

> An example of how this is used is the [`Card` component](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/packages/components/src/card/card/component.js#L44-L54) — all of its subcomponents (e.g. `CardBody`, `CardHeader`...) will [use, by default, the same value for the `size` as the parent `Card` component](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/packages/components/src/card/card-body/hook.js#L23) — which results in all the components having all the correct spacing "auto-magically".

Reviewer 2: The link to the lines `Card` and `CardBody` components might quickly get out misleading when lines are added or removed. Can we copy this snippet here and link to the files instead?

Author: I've updated this section by adding a code snippet showing how the `CardBody` component "inherits" the `size` prop from the parent `Card` via the Context System in [`c34f731` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/c34f73168aafb25ab9412d3f0c4f5ed59c3c1358)

#### Unit tests

> Please refer to the [JavaScript Testing Overview docs](/docs/contributors/code/testing-overview.md).

Reviewer 2: It would be better to link to the section about testing components.

Author: I wasn't sure about exactly what section you were referring to — for now I've updated the link to point to the snapshot testing in [`e65518d` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/e65518d1c9553d02ea31186602eb3fe18206863c)

#### Storybook

> All new components should include [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) stories, in order to make it easier to work on and review each component in isolation.

Reviewer 2: Can we expand on what the story is?

Author: Done in [`b6edc2e` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/b6edc2e0ddcd88ca1210bd8565b34a16d874791d)

A component's stories should be showcasing its different states — for example, a `Button`'s different variants:

```jsx
import Button from '../';

export default { title: 'Components/Button', component: Button };

export const _default = () => <Button>Default Button</Button>;

export const primary = () => <Button variant="primary">Primary Button</Button>;

export const secondary = () => <Button variant="secondary">Secondary Button</Button>;
```

For even more flexibility while writing stories, the [`@storybook/addons-controls`](https://storybook.js.org/addons/@storybook/addon-controls) addon is a great way to interact with a component's arguments dynamically and in real time.

> Ideally, all of the props for the story's components should be exposed by using knobs. The default value of the knobs should coincide with the default value of the props (i.e. it should be `undefined` if a prop is not required). A story should, therefore, also explicitely show how values from the Context System are applied to (sub)components. A good example of how this may look like is the [`Card` story](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/story/components-card--default) (code [here](/packages/components/src/card/stories/index.js)).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Ideally, all of the props for the story's components should be exposed by using knobs. The default value of the knobs should coincide with the default value of the props (i.e. it should be `undefined` if a prop is not required). A story should, therefore, also explicitly show how values from the Context System are applied to (sub)components. A good example of how this may look like is the [`Card` story](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/story/components-card--default) (code [here](/packages/components/src/card/stories/index.js)).
```

> Ideally, all of the props for the story's components should be exposed by using knobs. The default value of the knobs should coincide with the default value of the props (i.e. it should be `undefined` if a prop is not required). A story should, therefore, also explicitely show how values from the Context System are applied to (sub)components. A good example of how this may look like is the [`Card` story](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/?path=/story/components-card--default) (code [here](/packages/components/src/card/stories/index.js)).

Reviewer 2: Can we explain also what the "knob" is?

Author: Done in [`b6edc2e` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/b6edc2e0ddcd88ca1210bd8565b34a16d874791d) — I stopped using the term "knob", and instead I'm referring to the Storybook Controls addon (which replaced knobs). I've also added some more details on what controls are and what they allow

Storybook can be started on a local maching by running `npm run storybook:dev`. Alternatively, the components' catalogue (up to date with the latest code on `trunk`) can be found at [wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg/).

#### Documentation

> All components, in addition to being typed, should be using JSDoc when necessary.

Reviewer 2: We should link to coding guidelines and JSDoc section:

https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/trunk/docs/contributors/code/coding-guidelines.md#javascript-documentation-using-jsdoc

By the way, it would be good to revisit if that section didn't get out of date now we use TypeScript so widely.

Author: Linked to the docs in [`e8bb18d` (#33960)](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/33960/commits/e8bb18d572c23644a0d35173fa45abaa8038211b).

> it would be good to revisit if that section didn't get out of date now we use TypeScript so widely.

I've taken note and I'll try to review and potentially revisit that section in a separate PR

Each component that is exported from the `@wordpress/components` package should include a `README.md` file, explaining how to use the component, showing examples, and documenting all the props.

#### Folder structure

As a result of the above guidelines, all new components (except for shared utilities) should _generally_ follow this folder structure:

```
component-name/
├── component.tsx
├── context.ts
├── hook.ts
├── index.ts
├── README.md
├── styles.ts
└── types.ts
```

> In case of a family of components (e.g. `Card` and `CardBody`, `CardFooter`, `CardHeader` ...), each component's implementation should live in a separate subfolder:

Reviewer 2: It looks complex to apply but I see how it could benefit code readability in the long run. Besides, I like when code is structured the same way creating a pattern you can learn quickly 💯

Author: I agree. Having a well defined way to structure components can definitely help to create a feeling of familiarity when working within the components package!

The `@wordpress/components` package includes components that are relied upon by many developers across different projects. It is, therefore, very important to avoid introducing breaking changes.

> In these situations, one possible approach is to "soft-deprecate" a given legacy API. This is achieved by:

Reviewer 2: Looks correct 👍🏻
